# [#31665](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/31665) build: Make config warnings fatal if -DWCONFIGURE_ERROR=ON

PR by @davidgumberg

## Context

In the past a CentOS CI/CD task was configured to use an older version of Python than the minimum supported version. As a result, the build system emitted only a warning and there were some components of the testing suite that were skipped. This went undetected for a while. The goal of this PR is to add a new flag which tells CMake to treat all warnings as fatal errors. This will be used in strict environments like the CI/CD pipeline to flag minor inconsistencies fore review earlier.

## Personal

As a rather simple PR adding a flag, the discussion was mostly focused around approach over implementation. I inspected the code to learn how the new option was reporting itself, how it interacted with other common warnings, namely the check for BerkeleyDB version, and how it was integrated into the CI/CD system.

Most of my education here was in testing different combinations of compiler options. I tested with and without BDB installed on my system, and with a combination of flags for building `WITH_BDB`, as well as suppressing its common warning (`WARN_INCOMPATIBLE_BDB`). I struggled a little to gain confidence that my local setup was stable and wasn't caching settings. At first, I tried to install BDB with `nix-shell`, but it appears that is rather unreliable. Even though BDB was found, the subsequent dependency on `sqlite3` wasn't picked up by CMake and reported missing, even though it was clearly on my system in a few places.

In the end, I learned the most by exploring the `depends` directory, building its contents (the direct dependencies of the project) directly, and linking that toolchain directly into CMake with, for example:

```
cmake -B build --toolchain depends/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu/toolchain.cmake -DWCONFIGURE_ERROR=ON -DWARN_INCOMPATIBLE_BDB=ON -DENABLE_WALLET=ON -DWITH_BDB=ON --fresh
```

I felt my comment and test cases were rather mundane and a little verbose for the ticket, but a decent summary of how the flag operates under some normal conditions.
